---
layout: post
title: "Undergraduate Research Poster"
usemathjax: true
img: "assets/img/poster-image.png"
teaser: First place poster in mathematics at 2019 Tennessee Tech Research and Creative Inquiry Day
---

## Description of Project

In this undergraduate research project leading to a first place poster in mathematics at the 2019 Tennessee Tech Research and Creative Inquiry Day, 
I was asked to explore the Laplace distribution and attempt to use it on some highway speed data. This project was my first 
foray into $$ \LaTeX $$, and allowed me to build my R skills further. The majority of the work went into showing the Laplace distribution has a 
Guassian mixture representation. I would like to thank Dr. David Smith for his guidance on this project.

### Title and Abstract

*On the Gaussian Mixture Representation of the Laplace Distribution with Location and Scale Parameters and Applications*

"The Laplace distribution has historically had statistical
applications in image and speech recognition, hydrology,
and finance. The distribution is characterized by having
a sharper peak at the center than that of the Normal
distribution. Ding and Blitzstein (2016) present a novel and
simple approach based on moment generating functions
and conditioning to show the Laplace distribution could be
represented using a mixture of Exponential and standard
Normal variables. We extend their approach to include
a scale and location parameter and model to fit highway
speed data. The symmetry of the Laplace distribution does
not appear to represent the data well. Further modeling
efforts employ an asymmetric Laplace distribution.
We compare the goodness of fit of the symmetric and
asymmetric distributions on the speed data using the
Akaike information criterion."

You can see the [poster here.](/assets/researchdayposter-sethagee.pdf)